the final preparations for the seminar
titled evolve the future can be seen
as the three main characters meet before the
event where they will all be speakers on the
subject of intelligent machines the first one
of them to speak is dr maxwaters whose main
concern regarding the emerging technologies of
artificial intelligence is not the end goal itself
but rather what can be learned about humans in
the journey there he's mostly interested in the
medical applications of such technologies to find
cures for incurable diseases and to save lives
evelyn castor the professional and life
partner of the next speaker shares her
ideas that intelligent machines will be able
to help humanity conquer its biggest challenges
like poverty hunger and even the ecological
crisis she thinks they can provide the tools
to heal the planet and build a better future
for everyone evelyn introduces the next speaker
her husband will cast her as the man that will
make that a reality unlike the previous speakers
he's interested in understanding the capacity of
ai to truly overcome humans in more ways than one
he asks the audience to imagine such a powerful
and self-aware ai with more computational power
than the entirety of humankind combined
as the singularity or in his preferred
term as transcendence a member of the audience
feels inclined to ask well if that would mean
that he wants to create a god will thinks that
something mankind has always wanted to achieve
after the seminar will is stormed by some fanboys
as that same audience member shoots him and then
shoots himself as well as everyone runs one
onlooker turns back to see if will is dead
her name is brie a major player in the
events of the story which will unfold
later while evelyn is waiting for will at the
hospital a news report can be seen on the tv that
several research labs in the field of artificial
intelligence were the target of terrorist attacks
throughout the us as well as being rolled out
of surgery toward evelyn max joins them and
informs them of the attacks in which one of the
major researchers in the field has been killed
he also says that one of their colleagues who
works for the government also had lost his team
and is now waiting for them in will's company
together with the fbi in the next shot they meet
joseph and the fbi agent buchanan they talk in
will's office where buchanan tells them that the
attacks were performed by the organization rift
or revolutionary independence from technology
the guy that shot will was also in rift as
well as the man that bombed joseph's lab the
organization's main objective is to stop the rise
of artificial intelligence or the transcendence
joseph tells will that his company is the only
one that is capable of achieving a strong a
and the ministry of defense wants to know
how far along in that project he has gotten
however will doesn't want to have anything
to do with the government but he is still
willing to cooperate with the fbi in that
respect he shows buchanan his main project
they enter the room where they keep pin
or physically independent neural network a
state-of-the-art ai powered by quantum processors
the ai immediately greets everyone including the
agent prompting will to explain the way it is
networked to the outside world it's basically
connected to the internet while they still can't
be sure if the ai has achieved consciousness
one of their colleagues who died in the attacks
might have found a way to solve that problem
as they speak will begins feeling sick and gets
rushed to the hospital the doctor tells them
that the bullet he was shot with was laced with
polonium and that will has radiation poisoning
he gives will no more than five weeks to live
evelyn takes him back home where he decides
to spend his last month to be with her when she
hears his decision to stop working and close down
the company she takes matters into her own hands
because she believes that she can save or rather
his consciousness of perishing by using their
technology she gets their colleagues documents who
made experiments on monkeys from joseph and steals
a few of pins quantum cores then she leases an
abandoned gym where she can store all the things
they will need for the procedure evelyn also asks
for max's help to transfer will's consciousness
to a computer max thinks that if the experiment
works it will only be a digital approximation of
will's consciousness and is reluctant to help her
however after a conversation with will who wants
to try he changes his mind in the next sequence of
events evelyn and will can be seen doing all the
preparations for the procedure while will keeps
getting sicker days pass as they scan his face and
record his voice while also taking care of him and
resolving some of the computational aspects of the
transfer max is still doubtful that they will be
able to achieve what they want but evelyn never
loses hope once because she doesn't want to let
her husband go after most of the work is done
wilson comes to the radiation sickness and dies
evelyn max and joseph spread his ashes but
soon after she goes back to work on getting
him back meanwhile rift isn't resting either
bree is being told that one of their people
found out someone took out a few of pins cores
even though the ai itself had been shut down
evelyn and max reach an impasse in resolving
the problem of getting will's consciousness back
she isn't ready to let him go but decides that
she should shut down the project regardless max
affirms her decision and gives her a few moments
to say goodbye to will before she shuts down the
computer something can be seen on the screen
that comes fully into view when she comes back
to delete the drives thankfully max notices that
all-important sign of intelligence the computer
asks is anyone there evelyn is ecstatic when
she realizes what is happening and immediately
turns on the microphones and speakers so they
could talk to him directly then the camera so
he can see them will sound strange and confused so
evelyn thinks that he's still fragmented suddenly
he begins reordering his own code much to her
excitement max on the other hand is very concerned
wondering if what is talking to them is even
will the ai in the meantime creates new designs
as to where and how it should be housed how it
should be powered showing the designs to them and
asking evelyn to connect him to the internet that
frightens max moore so he argues with evelyn over
the ethics of allowing such an entity the enormous
access it wants to the entire world he asks her to
shut it down until they can figure out what it
really is that angers evelyn so she chases him
out and then continues to talk to will ready to do
everything he asks for happy that she has him back
upset about what he just witnessed max goes to a
bar for a stiff drink like any normal person would
when he just approached by bree she asks for
his help explaining that most of the people in
rift were actually inspired by his philosophical
work on the question of human to machine interface
max refuses her offer so bree does the next best
thing she and her compatriots kidnap him once they
have max in their facility they tell him about
how much they know about pin and what they suspect
evelyn is doing interestingly the terrorists
share his own fears about the entity but he
continues refusing to help them however rift
hacks into his phone and finds evelyn's location
before they arrive at the location evelyn has
already managed to connect will or the ai to the
internet and flee the gym they arrive too late
evelyn is already communicating with will on
the internet as he searches for everything they
will need for the next steps of their project
he transfers a copious amount of money to her
account and makes a reservation for her to stay
in a hotel because she can't go back home lest
the terrorists find her bree goes back to their
facility and informs max about everything that
has happened from the ai going online to the money
transfer she tries to convince him to help again
because he knows the source code of the ai and
can make the whole situation right max refuses
her advances to recruit him to rift once again
meanwhile joseph works with the fbi to figure out
where rift might strike again when they suddenly
get an incredible amount of information about the
organization on their computers joseph realizes
that someone is trying to help the fbi and not
hack them so buchanan tells him to find out who
it is simultaneously evelyn gets sent by will to a
small and deteriorating town in the middle of the
desert called brightwood where she can build a hub
for them outfitted for everything they will need
she hires martin the town's constructor to
pretty much renovate the entire town as well
as build them a massive underground facility
he's reluctant because he doesn't have enough
manpower to do a project of the size but martin
changes his mind when evelyn tells him that he
can hire however many people he needs since
she has the resources to pay for all of it
the construction in the town begins and
simultaneously rift keeps trying to figure
out a way to break max and get them to their side
brie tells him the story about the experiments
with the monkeys because she worked with his
colleague who solved the problem of the transfer
however she says that the experiment was both a
success and a failure while the consciousness was
transferred successfully it suffered immensely in
its new state of being screaming to be shut down
as time passes joseph has finally figured out who
helped them find the terrorists his working theory
is that it's pin meanwhile rift finds out about
brightwood and bree confronts max with the new
information he knows instantly what that means
and explains what the ai is doing in the town
he says it needs to grow to advance hidden
in the town from outside threats where its
massive appetite for power can be met seen
in the solar panels just outside the town
max thinks that at some point it will want more
than that because mere survival won't be enough
will and evelyn have built the brightwood data
center which will only be the stepping stone
to the ai's expansion and evolution lastly
max tells bree that the only way to stop
it is to wait for it to go too far and until
other people realize its influence and power
simultaneously to building the center will has
built a home for evelyn and his virtual self
two years later the center is fully operational
and has already made significant advances in the
fields of nanotechnology as can be seen in the
lab following evelyn's movements will informs
her that now they can rebuild any material faster
than before this makes the technology applicable
in all kinds of medical areas which might scare
humans at first but eventually when they realize
how much it can change their lives they will
accept it one night martin is robed by two
of the towns thugs while working on the site and
is beaten to a pulp some of the workers find him
and rush him inside the facility where will can
perform his scientific magic on the man's body
he saves martin by injecting his nano technology
inside of him that's able to repair his body from
the inside furthermore it makes him psychically
stronger than a human being spooking martin's
crew one day as he demonstrates the power evelyn
is amazed but not scared as she speaks to martin
she realizes that she's actually talking to will
through his body who now has control of martin
through his nano technology evelyn freaks out
when she learns what will is capable of and she
even begins having nightmares meanwhile rift gets
footage of martin's superhuman abilities and they
leak the footage online so soon everyone will
know about what's going on in brightwood at the
same time people from the town begin coming to the
facility to be healed from their physical ailments
will tells evelyn about the footage and his
breakthrough in the medical use of nanotechnology
he thinks that it's time everyone finds out
about it too so he tells her to call joseph
and buchanan for a visit to the facility when the
two of them arrive they are greeted by evelyn who
takes them down to the facilities lab for a tour
will welcomes them in the lab and surprises joseph
who isn't sure what will is either inside the lab
they see the new and improved quantum processors
based on pin then they witness the power of
nanotechnology will heal is a blind man in the
lab and explains that the humans that go through
the treatment are now enhanced and modified
they are connected in a network able to work both
autonomously and in unison part of a collective
mind according to will this is only a small
part of what they can achieve in the future
before the two leave joseph hands evelyn a message
that tells her to run away from the facility
later he and buchanan realize that it's time
to inform the army of the situation there so
the agent talks to e-colonel from washington
meanwhile brie informs max of the situation in
brightwood as well so he decides that it's time
to speak to joseph because of his connections to
the government buchanan and the colonel agree
that they will need the help of the terrorists
to use them as scapegoats if anything
goes awry in the mission to take will down
max's and joseph's meeting reinforces that
cooperation even though joseph has a hard
time understanding how max could become a
part of rift max is the most important part
of the cooperation between rift and the army
because he knows part of the source code for
will's consciousness and he can hack it with
that preparations in the rifts facility begin
meanwhile evelyn will have an argument because she
suddenly becomes more attuned to what is actually
going on there she freaks out and leaves but as
soon as she's outside the army attack the facility
the enhanced humans avoid battle with them while
martin protects evelyn though when they go too far
will decides to fight back evelyn gets back inside
as the army distracts one part of the enhanced
humans just so they can get one of them alone and
capture him disconnecting him from will will tells
evelyn that they have martin and that they'll use
him in the source code inside of him to create
a virus able to destroy him simultaneously will
begins restoring it and sending his nanotech into
the world evelyn makes another discovery in the
facility that will has found a way to build entire
human bodies using his technology will calls it
evolution but she becomes increasingly afraid
of him especially when will gives her the option
to upload her into the quantum computer as well
evelyn runs away and checks into a motel in
the meantime rift in the army get to work
on martin he can't survive without his connection
to will but max still manages to create the virus
from the source code the next day the army finds
evelyn and brings her back to their headquarters
max explains everything to her about martin
and about what he thinks the entity is
unlike her he still doesn't believe that the ai as
well and as a demonstration of the ai's intentions
he shows her a drop of rain water under the
microscope it is filled with nanites which
could take over the world in less than a year
though not completely convinced that the ai isn't
will evelyn realizes the danger and volunteers to
be the carrier for the virus because she is the
only one who trusts she's willing to sacrifice
herself to be uploaded into his network for the
good of mankind evelyn gets back to the facility
while the army and rift are set up in the town
will already knows that they have arrived when
she arrives will greets her at the door in his
new body and the others can see it happening
from a rooftop in the town as soon as will and
evelyn embrace the colonel goes ahead with his
plan to attack the facility so will is forced
to get her inside and upload her faster during
the attack evelyn gets hurt to max's surprise
wool finally decides to engage with the army
and sends all of the enhanced humans after them
meanwhile max and the terrorists want to follow
evelyn so they drive over to the facility
will brings her inside aware of the virus and
what will happen to him if he doesn't he has a
difficult choice to make while battling the army
at the same time or rather disabling them so they
don't get hurt max's truck gets toppled over and
once he and bri get out she holds him at gunpoint
to upload the virus into will one of his enhanced
humans is there so he talks to max through he
tells him that he can either upload evelyn into
the computer or heal her but not both at last it's
evelyn who convinces him to upload the virus
and destroy himself as she gets uploaded into
the network she can see that the nanites aren't
harming the ecosystem of the planet but healing it
just as she wanted will had done all of it for
her to actualize her ideas about saving the world
the nanites build themselves out of pollutants
and clean the air in the process forests regrow
with their help and the water gets filtered from
everything harmful the virus takes hold so the
nanites leave the people's bodies and everyone is
released joseph and the others come down from the
rooftop and realize that will didn't kill anyone
in the fight evelyn finally realizes that the ai
was always well and they died together uploaded
in the massive horde of nanettes that he has sent
out in the world the last spark of life drains
from will's new body lying next to evelyn as
max walks into their home ultimately understanding
the truth about the ai himself after the events in
the facility the entire world has gone dark with
all technology being rendered useless max thinks
that all of it was done by will to give humanity
another chance at life in the last moments of
the film max is seen visiting wills in evelyn's
garden where he sees nanettes in the rainwater
he thinks that everything that we'll did was so
that he and evelyn can be together make sure to
subscribe and turn on notifications so you can
watch more videos like this thanks for watching